docs/index.md, before:

# Introduction

Welcome to the Salt framework!

Salt is a general-purpose framework to train **multi-modal**, **multi-task** models.
It was developed for state-of-the art jet flavour tagging algorithms such as GN1 and GN2, but can be applied much more widely.

!!! example "The code is hosted on the CERN GitLab: [https://gitlab.cern.ch/atlas-flavor-tagging-tools/algorithms/salt](https://gitlab.cern.ch/atlas-flavor-tagging-tools/algorithms/salt)"

### Features

- Fully based on [Pytorch Lightning](https://lightning.ai/docs/pytorch/stable/).
- Support for multiple YAML-configurable [input modalities][salt.models.InitNet] and [output tasks][task-heads].
- ONNX export support to use trained models in Athena.
- Easily extensible: you can implement your own custom models.
- Well documented and CI tested.

### Getting Started

Below are some helpful links to get you started:

!!! info "You can find out more about flavour tagging algorithms at the [FTAG docs](https://ftag.docs.cern.ch/)"

!!! question "There is a [channel](https://mattermost.web.cern.ch/aft-algs/channels/gnns) for the framework in the [FTAG Mattermost workspace](https://mattermost.web.cern.ch/signup_user_complete/?id=1wicts5csjd49kg7uymwwt9aho&md=link&sbr=su)"

!!! abstract "A tutorial on how to use Salt is provided at the [FTAG docs page](https://ftag.docs.cern.ch/software/tutorials/tutorial-salt/)"

!!! tip "An API reference for the framework is available [here](api/data)"

!!! note "Salt is based on work from two existing frameworks [[1]](https://gitlab.cern.ch/atlas-flavor-tagging-tools/algorithms/GNNJetTagger) [[2]](https://gitlab.cern.ch/mleigh/flavour_tagging/)"

Commit message:

Add support for DL1-style model in main class and rename things

docs/index.md, after:

# Introduction

Welcome to the Salt framework!

Salt is a general-purpose framework to train **multi-modal**, **multi-task** models.
It was developed for state-of-the art jet flavour tagging algorithms such as [GN1](https://ftag.docs.cern.ch/algorithms/GN1/) and [GN2](https://ftag.docs.cern.ch/algorithms/GN2/), but can be applied much more widely.
For example, you could use Salt to classify or regress properties of objects or events, or all these things at once!

!!! example "The code is hosted on the CERN GitLab: [https://gitlab.cern.ch/atlas-flavor-tagging-tools/algorithms/salt](https://gitlab.cern.ch/atlas-flavor-tagging-tools/algorithms/salt)"

### Features

- Fully based on [Pytorch Lightning](https://lightning.ai/docs/pytorch/stable/).
- Support for multiple YAML-configurable [input modalities][salt.models.InitNet] and [output tasks][task-heads].
- ONNX export support to use trained models in [Athena](https://gitlab.cern.ch/atlas/athena/).
- Easily extensible: you can implement your own custom models.
- Well documented and CI tested.

### Getting Started

Below are some helpful links to get you started:

!!! info "You can find out more about flavour tagging algorithms at the [FTAG docs](https://ftag.docs.cern.ch/)"

!!! question "There is a [channel](https://mattermost.web.cern.ch/aft-algs/channels/gnns) for the framework in the [FTAG Mattermost workspace](https://mattermost.web.cern.ch/signup_user_complete/?id=1wicts5csjd49kg7uymwwt9aho&md=link&sbr=su)"

!!! abstract "A tutorial on how to use Salt is provided at the [FTAG docs page](https://ftag.docs.cern.ch/software/tutorials/tutorial-salt/)"

!!! note "[Contributions](contributing) are welcome! Check out [existing issues](https://gitlab.cern.ch/atlas-flavor-tagging-tools/algorithms/salt/-/issues) for inspiration, or open your own"

!!! tip "You can become a Salt expert by checking out the [API reference](api/data)"

### Current Usage

Salt is currently used for the following projects:

- [Jet flavour tagging](https://ftag.docs.cern.ch/algorithms/GN2/)
- [Boosted $X \rightarrow bb$ tagging](https://cds.cern.ch/record/2866601)
- [Tau ID](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1280531/timetable/?view=standard#153-new-identification-and-tag)
- [b-jet energy calibration](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1280531/timetable/?view=standard#131-b-jet-regression-effort-su)
- [Primary vertexing](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1311519/timetable/?view=standard#25-leveraging-the-ftag-softwar)
- [LLP vertexing](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1311519/timetable/?view=standard#25-leveraging-the-ftag-softwar)


The framework is originally based on work from two previously existing projects: [[1]](https://gitlab.cern.ch/atlas-flavor-tagging-tools/algorithms/GNNJetTagger) [[2]](https://gitlab.cern.ch/mleigh/flavour_tagging/).
